- [Narrator] We have looked at a couple of rules
in generics in the first module,
but there is an additional set of restrictions
that you need to be aware of.
The first one is with type parameters.
The rule is that you cannot instantiate a type parameter.
This means you cannot write code like this, Tt = new T().
Remember that T is just a placeholder
and will be replaced by the desired type argument
that you pass when you invoke your generic type.
The next restriction is for static fields.
You cannot declare static fields in your code
whose types are type parameters.
Static fields or methods are always defined
for the class level.
They are never associated
with any particular instance of the class.
So let's say, in your box class,
you declare a static field like this, private static T t;
and then you create two instances of the box class,
Box and Box.
In that case, it is not possible to determine
which of these type arguments will replace that T
for your static field, so this is not allowed.
The next restriction is on the instanceof operator.
instanceof operator in Java is used to check
if a variable is an instance of a certain class
and this check happens at runtime.
Let's say, if you write code like this,
BoxfruitBox = new Box<>();
and then you make a check like this,
if (fruitBox instanceof Box).
Well, this check will not make any sense
because after type erasure,
the type argument fruit is going to be erased.
So in the end, you will just check whether the fruit box
is an instance of the box type.
So the compiler does not allow this operation at all.
This operator, however, works with unbounded wildcards.
For example, let's look at this piece of code,
BoxfruitBox = new Box<>();
and then you make a check where you say
if (fruitBox instanceof CardboardBox)
and you insert a wildcard character this time.
Now, since this is a wildcard character,
we really do not care what type argument will replace it.
But the type argument fruit will definitely get erased
after type erasure.
So you will end up checking whether the fruit box
is an instance of cardboard box type,
which is totally fine, and is allowed by the compiler.
The next restriction is on arrays.
You are not allowed to create arrays of parameterized types.
So a line of code, like this, will not work,
Box, which is an array,
the name of the array is []fruitBoxArray
and that is equal to new Box
with a capacity of 10 for that array.
This will not work.
It's not allowed by the compiler.
The next restriction is on method overloading.
The rule is that you cannot create an overloaded method,
which has got the same type erasure
as your original method.
Let's say, you have a method
called private static void add(BoxfruitBox).
And then you create an overloaded version
of this method by changing the parameter, like this,
private static void add(BoxbookBox).
After type erasure,
both of these methods will look exactly the same.
They will be termed as duplicate methods
and that is something that's not allowed in Java.
The last restriction is with throwables.
The first rule is you cannot create a genetic subclass
that extends throwable or any of its subtypes.
For example, code, like this,
class BoxExceptionextends Throwable will not work.
The second rule to this
is that you cannot use a type parameter in the catch clause
when you write code for exceptions in your applications.
However, the throws clause
with a type parameter totally works.
For example, if you have a class,
GenericClass,
then you can use that type parameter, T,
in the throws clause for all methods
inside that generic clause.